Let's understand the word yantra.
Yantra literally means a form or a complex arrangement of forms.
Or in today's language, the word yantra means a machine.
Isn't body a machine?
HM isn't this body a certain kind of machine?
No, no, no, sadhguru, this is me.
All right.
But tomorrow if you go to your doctor, he opens up this opens
up that says this needs to be fixed.
That need to be fixed, whether you like it or not, It is a
machine.
It is such a perfect machine that you forget that it's a
machine.
But if you forget to gas it for three days, then it tells you
you're out of gas.
Yes or no.
If you want a quick realization, hold your nose.
In a minute, it'll tell you I'm out of gas South.
This is a machine, so it is a yantra.
Now, for what purpose a particular machine functions
depends upon how it is designed.
There is a, you know, a grinding machine which is created for
grinding flower or something like this.
There is an automobile, which is another kind of machine which is
used for transportation.
There's another kind of machine which we call a computer.
There's another kind of machine we call a spacecraft.
There's another kind of machine we call a solar system, another
kind of machine we call a universe, another kind of
machine we call a whole cosmos.
Everything is a certain geometrical arrangement of
forms.
When they all fall together and function in a certain way, they
fulfill a certain purpose.
This is a machine.
The same thing is true with this.
This is a machine.
Now, what kind of machine do you want to be?
Do you want to be just a eating, sleeping, reproducing and dying
machine?
Or do you want to be a machine which exudes something else?
Do you want to be a machine which becomes a big possibility
for every other machine which is here?
So accordingly you gear up the machine, tune the machine.
So this is a certain kind of machine.
This is an evolving machine.
If you want from your birth to death, you can every day evolve
this machine into a different possibility.
There are many ways to look at it because you're referring to
the Yantras.
And today when we say yantra, generally we're talking about
energy forms, energy machines, not physical machines.
So this has an energy dimension to this machine.
This in Yoga we call Pranamaya Kosha energy system comprises of
114 junction boxes or junction junction points or major meeting
and mingling of what we call as Nadis or the channels or
pathways of energy.
These 114 are referred to as the chakras 114 chakras in the
system and these are not geographically fixed in
location.
You can move them, you can move them to different parts of the
body for different purposes of activity and doing things.
If you do not have mobility in your energy system, you will be
mediocre levels of action.
You will never rise to a different level of activity.
First of all, if you want to create an energy form which
you're referring to as right now, the Bhairaviyantras have
become very, you know, people.
Many people's lives transformed simply because of this many
homes and the space in which the live is transformed simply
because of a simple energy form.
If you want to create something like that, first of all your
energy should be mobile.
If there's no mobility in your energy system, if you cannot
move your chakras where it is necessary at a given point,
there is nothing you can impart on anything.
Right now there's a consecration process going on.
We are consecrating the Bhairavi Devi for the Salem Temple.
It's going on 24 hours I'm not there 24 hours in the shrine.
I'm there when I'm necessary physically, otherwise I'm not
there.
But it's on.
Because those of you who who have known me in different kinds
of situations or in different kinds of states, if you observe
closely, you would see something of Maine is missing right now in
the last 25 days or 30 days, because one part we kept in this
line just to keep the thing going.
This is good.
This is OK for a period of time.
If you do it for too long, it will Causeway damage to this One
South.
You want to finish it within a certain space of time, but
unfortunately the physical arrangements of life don't
always cooperate.
People around you do not cooperate.
So many things happen and I thought 11-12 days we'll finish
this, but now it's already over 2526 days.
We will close it in the next few days.
But a part of your energy body is engaged in something, it'll
it'll do its own thing, energy wise.
Even if you're sleeping, your energy is functioning, otherwise
nothing would function.
All right?
HM your thought is not functioning.
Your emotion is not functioning.
You're not conscious, but your energies are functioning.
That is why everything is happening.
Heart did not stop beating, or the liver function did not stop,
or nothing in the body stopped because the energy body is still
alive and active.
Similarly, a part of the energy body, if you leave it somewhere,
it's on by itself and it'll do what it has to do.
But if you do it for too long, it will Causeway damage to the
mother body or for lack of words I'm saying mother body or the
the main part of the energy system will get damaged if you
leave it for too long.
Which?
Which happened in a serious manner when we were doing the
dhyanalinga process because we played too much with it.
But importantly, how to transform your own body into a
powerful yantra?
It is a yantra even now.
Let's recognize that even now it is a machine.
It is a physical machine, an intelligent machine and an
energy machine at the same time.
But for what purpose are you just here?
You must understand you may think you're doing many things.
All that's happening is physically, if you do not
explore other dimensions of life, after you're dead, if
somebody looks, what is it that happened?
If you have left a couple of children, that's the only thing
that's happened.
You perpetuated human race.
Beyond that, nothing else happened.
Why?
People have always been desperate to have children.
It's just this because that's the only thing they can do.
Ultimately rest is all arrangements around that.
Please see this.
The only thing that unfortunately they are capable
of doing is reproduction.
Beyond that, nothing else has touched their life.
So you can be a reproducing machine or you can become a
meditative machine.
You can become a a phenomenal mystical machine.
Just a little rearrangement of parts.
The same gear wheels, the same turning things.
If you put it one way, it is a devious moped.
If you put it another way, it's a racing machine.
If you put it another way, it's a flying machine.
Same things, isn't it?
Just arrangement is changing.
Similarly with this, if you change the arrangement of your
energy body, if you change the arrangement of this 114 chakras,
this can become many different things and this must be a
planned change.
This must be a knowledgeable change.
If you simply wildly change it can, it can lead to many things
which are not necessary.
What I'm saying is, if you make certain arrangements with your
energy system, you can become like a full-fledged demon.
You can, if you arrange it in a certain way, you've become a
full-fledged divine entity.
If you arrange it in a certain way, you become a mystical
process.
Wherever you walk, things will happen in ways people have not
imagined possible.
It's all a question of how you arrange this.
Am I a yantra?
Yes, you are a yantra.
Are you a reproducing yantra?
Are you an intelligent yantra, or are you some other kind of
yantra?
Is a question of arrangement.
So even the physical manifestation of outside yantras
that we are creating is just a certain arrangement of a few
chakras.
No yantra is 114 chakras except this one.
It is full-fledged.
Why Dhyanalinga was such a challenge is it's a full-fledged
yantra.
Everything else is a small arrangement, but it's specific
because it's specific goals.
It looks far more impressive.
I'm sure a whole lot of people will vouch that their Bhairavi
Yantra at home, their Avigna Yantra at home is far more
powerful than Dhyanalinga.
That will be their experience because that Yantra is tuned or
attuned to their body and their being because of that.
They feel that way.
But if somebody attunes himself or herself with the annalinga,
then it's a different experience altogether.
It obliterates you completely as a person and delivers you into a
completely different space.
This is the only Yantra right now of all the Yantras we have
created, which is all 114
chakras.
A full-fledged being, rest or certain arrangement made for
specific purposes.
This is an ultimate machine in this solar system.
Human system is an ultimate machine with all the
possibilities open.
Exploring this or not exploring this is an individual thing.
Why is it One person seems to come to it easily, another
person seems to struggle with it is simply depending upon right
now what is the fundamental arrangement within you.
Accordingly, it takes time.
How flexible are you as a as a person, as a this thing?
How willing are you Is fundamentally the question.
If you are absolutely willing right now, we can arrange.
We don't even have to do any practice right now.
I can arrange it for you just like that, if you're absolutely
willing.
Willing means you must understand.
Being truly willing means you have no will of your own.
If you sit here for a moment without any will of your own,
transformation can be done without any practice.
Practice is only to sustain the change because again, you may
twist yourself out.
So the practice is the spiritual.
Sadhana is to create a foundation in the physical body
so the distortions will not happen easily.
Life situations can freak your energy system.
You walk into your place.
You walk into your life situation.
You walk into certain emotions.
You walk into certain physical situations.
The very way you are can change positively or negatively
depending upon what influences you.
So the physical sadhana of the yogic practice is to establish a
body which becomes slowly, less and less available to all kinds
of influences.
You have a stable platform upon which if we build something, it
stays that way.
How many of you have not noticed this?
First day we've initiated you into Sonia meditation or
Shambhavi.
You thought, oh, this is it.
I have arrived tch.
But in two weeks time you had all your problems again.
Not because now Shambhavi is not working.
Simply because you don't have stable enough platform to hold
up this wonderful structure we created for one day for you.
You have to work, create a stable platform.
Otherwise, if the platform is not stable enough, it doesn't
matter what kind of a fabulous structure you build, it's not
going to stay for a long time.
It'll keep crumbling.
So daily sadhana is it's crumbling and you want to keep
it up.
You want to crumbling and you want to keep it up.
First thing is to bring stability.
We want to see how we are right now working on almost 190
children for whom we are working to establish a very stable body.
We will have to watch and see what wonderful things will
happen out of this, because once somebody has such a stable body,
we can do things which will not get distorted very easily.